# TeggleBot
## Purpose
Create a Discord Bot that notifies text channels when a Twitch.tv streamer goes live.
## Features
- Setup is completely in Discord, no web interface. 
- Every field can be changed 
	- The channel that gets notified.
	- The message that gets sent with the embed.
	- The image that is sent in the embed.
- Stream Status is shown and updated when streamer goes online or offline
- Link to the VOD is added, if the streamer enables VODs.
- Completely free.
## Try out the bot
If you don't want to host your own bot, invite my bot below. Read the Command Information section for command details.
### Invitation link
[Invite the bot](https://discord.com/oauth2/authorize?client_id=963284271655702568&scope=bot&permissions=134144)
### Quick-start 
After inviting the bot to the server, use /follow to get notifications. [Example Command](https://i.imgur.com/HB67Xlw.png)

Fields
- url(Required): The url of the streamer you want to follow (ex: https://twitch.tv/teggledev)
- disc_channel(Required): The Discord channel you want to send stream notifications to. 
- message: The message to be sent with the notification, you can mention roles, @everyone, etc. 
- image: A url that directly links to an image to show with the notification. 

The Bot will reply with [a message like this](https://i.imgur.com/90UZvwe.png). You will have 15 seconds to confirm that this is the correct streamer. If it expires, you will have to re-enter the command.

After confirming, the bot will send [this message](https://i.imgur.com/mStE35v.png).

And you should be all set, five Twitch streamers can be followed per server. [Example notification](https://i.imgur.com/SqKKciE.png)

__Note: The bot must be in the channel and be able to send messages, otherwise no message will be sent.__
## Command Information
### General Commands
These commands are sent to every guild. The first six commands can only be sent by those who have at least one of the following permissions: Administrator, ManageGuild, ManageWebhooks
- /follow 				# Follow a Twitch streamer, send notifications to a text channel whenever stream goes live.
- /unfollow				# Reverse of /follow, stops notifications from happening
- /following			# Show every channel you follow
- /change_channel		# Change the channel that a specific streamer's notifications are sent to
- /change_image			# Change the image that gets shown with the notification
- /change_message		# Change the message that gets sent with the notification
- /stats				# Shows stats about the bot
- /check_id				# Shows Guild id and channel id

### Dev Commands
Commands that are only to be used for debugging purposes. These are only sent to guilds specified in your .env file, and should only be ran on a test server.
- /tb_dev_stats			# Information on Db/hashmaps
- /tb_dev_deleteallsubs	# If sent True: Resets the entire DB and hashmaps. If False: Reloads subscriptions.
- /tb_dev_checktable	# Get detailed information on a table in the database
- /tb_dev_get_vod		# Sends a list of vods to the console, to see if vods were made

## Why this bot was made
My favorite streamer's Discord was using the massively popular Mee6 bot. It was great early on, but as time went on, livestream notifications would take be taking longer and longer to appear. There was no rhyme or reason to how long it would take Mee6 to notify the guild, so I wanted to see if I could do better with my own bot. This is illustrated in in this following example- the Mee6 bot responded 31 minutes after my bot. ([Mee6](https://i.imgur.com/Af4dVaE.png) vs [TeggleBot](https://i.imgur.com/B4bsUpQ.png)

Why didn't I just search for another person's bot to use? 
- I wanted to learn how to make a Discord bot.
- I felt that other implementations of stream notifications were barebones.
- I didn't want all the extra features that I would never use or would have to pay for.

## Requirements to host this bot
This project is run on Ubuntu 22.04, with Node.js.

There are six major components needed for this program to work
1. Buy (or use) a domain and create an A record pointed to the IP of the machine that hosts the program.
2. A SSL certificate, a free one can be generated by [Let's Encypt](https://letsencrypt.org)
3. Configure the host machine to use a reverse proxy (ex. Nginx), an explanation is further down the file. __NOTE__: Also make Nginx restart upon certificate renewal by creating a cli.ini file, and adding the one line of code in this article[Arnon on Technology](https://blog.arnonerba.com/2019/01/lets-encrypt-how-to-automatically-restart-nginx-with-certbot) 
4. Must create a Discord account and [create a new application](https://discord.com/developers/applications)
5. Must create a Twitch.tv account and [create an application](https://dev.twitch.tv/console/apps)
6. A .env file

Twitch's API requires a redirect url to return the data requested from an API call. An individual IP address is not sufficient, so you need to purchase a domain to point to. Purchase one from a domain broker such as GoDaddy, Namecheap, Google Domains, etc.

Twitch also requires the redirect url to use HTTPS, which means we need a SSL certificate. __It can not be a self-signed ssl certificate__, I've tried, but it doesn't work. You can get one for free from Let's Encrypt (link above), or buy one from a trusted source. 

The reverse proxy in this use case connects the request to the application, redirecting the request to the port number the program is listening for.

Since we need to use Discord's API to add the playlist to a user's account, we need to register an account and create an application. This allows us to interact with the API.

The same reasoning applies for Twitch as well.

To avoid uploading sensitive information like the application id/secret, we store the data in a .env file, and it is not uploaded to git. In this project, it is structured like the code below; however, without the comments.

Sample .env file:
```
DISCORD_BOT_TOKEN=			#index.js | deploy_commands.js |Token generated when you add a bot to your Discord application (Bot tab)
DISCORD_CLIENT_ID=			#deploy_commands.js | Application ID of your bot (General Information tab) 
DISCORD_TEST_SERVER_ID=		#deploy_commands.js | Guild (Programmatic name for a discord server) Id for a personal test Guild 
DISCORD_TEST_SERVER_ID2=	#deploy_commands.js | Same as above, but for a second test server
TWITCH_CLIENT_ID=			#index.js | Client ID from Twitch
TWITCH_CLIENT_SECRET=		#index.js | Client Secret from Twitch
TWITCH_ACCESS_TOKEN=		#index.js | String that you literally randomly generate
HOST_NAME=					#index.js | Your domain name, in the example "https://teggle.dev/spotify", "HOST_NAME=teggle.dev" 
ADAPTER_PORT=				#index.js | Port you want to watch for notifications, same port as you put in nginx
PATH_PREFIX=				#index.js | The location you set when setting up nginx.  "PATH_PREFIX=/spotify" in the example at the bottom of the file
SEQUELIZE_USER=				#index.js | Login for the database
SEQUELIZE_PASS=				
DB_NAME=					#index.js | Information about the database, can be local or remote
DB_HOST=
DB_DIALECT=
DB_STORAGE=
```
DISCORD prefixed variables are from Discord, whether from creating an application, or from a guild specifically.
TWITCH prefixed variables are the same, but from Twitch

The comments show which files use this information, and a little bit of information about it.

## Hosting the bot
### Inviting the bot to a Guild
If you are using the bot with test guilds, invite the bot with https://discord.com/oauth2/authorize?client_id=CLIENT_ID_HERE&scope=bot&permissions=134144 
Where __CLIENT_ID_HERE__ is the same as the DISCORD_CLIENT_ID in your .env file. The only permissions this bot currently needs is View Channels, Send Messages, and Mention @everyone, @here, etc.
### Starting the bot
To start the bot, you can run either of the two lines below, the first launches the program in the foreground, the latter in the background.
```
npm start
(npm start &)
```
You can also use the --force option below to empty all the databases when starting the bot.
> npm start --force

## The Bot, explained
### Index.js
All of the setup is in index.js
1. npm start is called.
2. deploy-commands.js registers the slash commands with Discord.
3. After deploy-commands.js finishes, index.js is now started.
4. Packages, helper files, and environment variables(.env) are loaded in.
5. A discord client is instantiated, but is not connected yet to Discord's servers.
6. Discord slash commands and events are loaded into the client object
7. The databases and hashmaps used are setup
8. Twitch's Client object is setup, connected to the reverse proxy adapter, but not listening for events.
9. If --force is set, wipe all the tables and remove all subscriptions.
10. Otherwise, reload twitch subscriptions into the hashmap, so the bot knows how to handle callbacks. 
11. Start the Discord listener
12. Start the Twitch listener
13. Wait for either Twitch callbacks or Discord events to occur.
14. If a callback from Twitch occurs, notify all channels following that streamer.
15. If it's a Discord event or interaction, handle it appropriately.

Most of the heavy lifting is in ./helperFiles/database_functions.js, embed/validation_functions are mainly for display purposes or checking if proper input was given.

### Events
Events in this program are something notable occurring most of the time by human interaction, but some may be caused by machines. An event gets emitted by Discord to the bot (and other users), they are listed [here](https://discord.js.org/#/docs/discord.js/main/typedef/Events), and the behavior to handle these events can be changed. In the events folder, we have four events that we handle: InteractionCreate, ChannelDelete, GuildDelete, and ready.js.

InteractionCreate is our main event, anything from using a slash command, to pressing a button, or interacting with a string select menu, triggers the InteractionCreate event. 

ChannelDelete is emitted whenever a channel gets deleted. Our use case is to cleanup our database when a channel gets deleted, if it is one that get sent notifications. Essentially, if notifications are sent to a channel that gets deleted, you unfollow the affected streamers, and will have to use /follow again.

GuildDelete is similar to ChannelDelete, but when the entire server gets deleted. First, it unfollows every streamer the guild does, then deletes the table in guild_subs.

ready.js is fired after Client.listen finishes and is ready to receive events.

### Slash Commands
All interactions with the bot are initially started with a slash command, the bot does not read any messages.
There are three folders with commands
- devCommands: This folder has commands that only work in the test guilds you set in .env, as they shouldn't be available to the public.
- safeCommands: The commands in here are the few commands that don't modify anything in the database, so they can be called by anybody, at any time.
- unsafeCommands: Commands that alter entries in the database. These are callable only by people with at least one of these three permissions: Administrator, ManageGuild, or ManageWebhooks. In addition, only one command from this folder can be processed at a time, in order to prevent race conditions.

## Challenges
### Overall Challenges
Learning all the necessary pieces to make and host this bot was challenging. Buying a domain and VPS was one thing, but setting up Nginx and getting the correct SSL certificate was a lot less intuitive. It's very easy to find information on it after the fact, but the initial foray of queries were filled with articles that were either irrelevant or outdated. 

The Twurple.js library was also harder to work with, as the examples in the docs were for other classes/objects in the library. As opposed to the Discord.js library, where guides spoonfeed every major class. Nonetheless I got both working through the documentation and their respective Discords, where both maintainers and community are there to help people.

### Specific Challenges
#### Stream Thumbnail
It was impossible to consistently get the correct stream thumbnail. According to most posts on Twitch's dev forum, the problem is a caching problem- that the eventsub notification takes a lot less time to send, than the time it takes for their CDN Cache to update. So a lot of the time, a default image is sent to Discord. 

I don't think this is the full story, however, as sometimes the image would be correctly displayed for a streamer for a few days, then upon a restart with no code changes, it wouldn't work. Also, I noticed that when I had Discord open on four different platforms at the same time, the correct thumbnail would be sent on some platforms but not on other platforms. I asked about this question on the Discord.js server, and the response was that it was just something only Discord could solve. 

So with the caching problem from Twitch, and the display error from Discord, I opted to remove the stream thumbnail for the time being, replacing it with a user supplied image, if the image is hosted on some other website. 

#### Bot eventually stops receiving Twitch notifications
Ever since I've been able to run the bot continuously, there's been a problem where it would stop receiving events from Twitch after weeks of uptime. No matter what I changed in the code, it would always break after a month or two.

I've since learned that it's mainly caused by the SSL certificate expiring. Additionially, I've just stumbled upon the fact that most servers don't automatically update the certificate that they use, until you restart it. So to deal with this, I set the reverse proxy to automatically restart Nginx after it refreshes the certificate. Hopefully that solves the problem, but I've discovered that Twurple also uses an AppAccessToken which may or may not refresh itself.

## Learned
1. Explore how Discord bots work
2. Learn about event-driven programming
3. Learn how to interact programmatically with an API
4. Learn how to integrate two APIs
5. Learned about domains and reverse proxies
6. Learned more about JS and Node.js
7. Reinforced VM knowledge
8. Updating libraries and reading changelogs

## Future Work
1. Log all actions
2. Update Notifications when stream title/game updates
3. Support more streaming platforms
4. Track Manga chapter releases.

## Nginx setup
1. Install nginx
2. Configure /etc/nginx/sites-available/default to listen on ssl, install the ssl certificate, and setup the reverse proxy
```
server {
	listen 443 ssl;
	listen [::]:443 ssl;
	server_name DOMAIN_NAME;
	ssl_certificate /etc/letsencrypt/live/certificate-folder/fullchai-/change_message	#Change the message that gets sent with the notification
n.pem;
	ssl_certificate /etc/letsencrypt/live/certificate-folder/privkey.pem;
	location /spotify {
		proxy_pass http://127.0.0.1:PORT_NUMBER/;
	}
}
```

Where PORT_NUMBER is the port you set in .env, and __DOMAIN_NAME__ is the host domain (ex: teggle.dev)

3. Restart Nginx
```
sudo systemctl restart nginx
```
If there is no error output, then everything is fine. Otherwise re-edit /etc/nginx/sites-available/default 

4. Add rules to your firewall to allow traffic 
```
sudo ufw allow `Nginx Full`
```

5. If using a VM on a physical computer on your home network, you may have to port forward any traffic on 443 to your vm's internal network ip (192.168.x.x)
